Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course on Tableau. Today we're going to
learn some advanced techniques relating
to animations. So here we are with our
animation which is already pretty pretty
great. Once again, let's play that this is
how fertility rate life expectancy and
population have been changing over the
past 50 years.
How can we add additional features to
this visualization that will allow the
users to extract more insights?
Well there is a way and that way is
through this option over here which is
show history. So I'm just going to click
this checkbox and I will show what that
does, so once you click the checkbox it
might take a few seconds to calculate
because it is adding a quite a lot to
the visualization as you'll see and what
you can do now is if you click any given
circle so let's look at let's say India
for instance and now you click play
which will notice is that it leaves a
trail.
How cool is that? You can actually see
how this country was developing and you
can put your mouse over this trail and
will tell you for every single year what
the population was, the fertility rate, life
expectancy and so on. So that is very
powerful.
Let's do another one, let's say let's
pick a smaller country what is that?
Solomon Islands, let's click play.
Interesting pattern isn't it? So first
the fertility rate increase then it
started decreasing at the same time life
expectancy went up they are starting going down.
In 1988 apparently something was
happening in those periods and then it started
going to wear all of the countries are
going to into this top left quadrant.
Interesting pattern and also you can or
the user of your dashboard now can not
just wait and select the start each
individual country. They can look at the
country that they're interested in. Let's
say they are interested in this country
Syrian, Arab Republic and if you click on
it, you will see the trail so you don't
have to replay the visualization
for the trail trip here or South Africa
for instance, what is going on there
so what happened there 1992-93 life
expectancy dropped and now it's going
back up so you can study every single
country just by itself through this
visualization but still look at it in
terms of the overall tendencies and
trends you can pause this visualization
wherever you want and see what happened
up to that year and that is exactly what
the challenge was asking for it was
asking for the overall trends so you can
see them through the visualization
through the animation and also is asking
for an ability to drill down into
individual countries and look at their
development history and there you go
there is your history for each
individual country select whichever one
you want and you will get a pattern. So
that's a good start, now let's explore
this show history option in a bit more
detail. What else do we have here?
Well the other options that we have is
we can change the marks to a trail so
let's do that once again a bit of
calculation and now if we go back to
start and let's say we select china and
click Play what you'll see is instead of
marks being left behind you can actually
see like just the line so in this case
you can't put your mouse over the line
won't tell you anything so it's less
informative but it's might be more
applicable to certain types of animation.
So in every animation we'll have its own
features, its own requirements and you might
want to have this line rather than faded
marks for a specific animation and so
there you go that's what you can achieve
with the lines. You have some more
controls here, so you can format your
trail so you can make it like a dotted
line.
Let's see that update or or even more
dotted line so you're going to change
the color so if you would like you can
make all the trails I just changed with,
there you go if you want to change the
colors you can make all the trails black
if you want things like that so play
around with that and and see what you
discover I'm just going to leave it at
standard.
And now I wanted to show you two more
other ways you can present your data.
Of course you can combine your marks and
trails by clicking both. I'm not
going to do that now.
Oh well I did click it so there you go
that's that's what it looks like but
what I really wanted to show you is
which marks the history will be shown
for, so you can select you can select
highlighted, selected all or manual now
let's put this back on to marks and i'm
going to drag this to the start first
and I'm going to go in here and I'm
going to select show history for all and
let's watch how this unravels click Play
and as you can see the history is being
shown for every single mark it might be
a bit confusing but it looks pretty
amazing and once again you can explore
every country but of course it is too
cluttered although you might find this
handy for some of the visualizations
that you will be creating. So let's go
back into show history and another way
you can visualize this is all but let's
look at rails. Let's put it back to the
start and let's look at trails so this
is where trails a bit more applicable I
think because they take up less space
and looks like a painting. Looks like a
drawing and that's also pretty exciting
and finally what you might want to do is
let's say you go into trails and you
want to look at only the last five. For
all, but only show the last five and what
that will do is a liver like a trail
behind your circle so it's like it's
moving around in time with you.
In fact you can also change that to
trails rather than trails marks last
five and all. So this one it looks like
they're flying through space that that
also looks nice and once again all
depends on the type of visualization
creating and what you want to achieve.
Here you can look at the last five years
apart from only looking nice it also
shows you kind of the rate so here you
can see that this country is moving very
quickly. This country is moving slowly so
this is India.
This country is moving a bit faster so
it also shows you the rate and you can
gather information for the last five
years or you can change it to the number
of years that you would like and now for
completeness sake let's explore the
other two options that are available to
you. So if you go in here and you select
highlighted then it's like selected but
you don't have to be selected they can
be just highlighted and for instance
let's say I want to see how all the
countries in Latin America were
developing so I just click Latin America
the circles are not selected they're
just highlighted and yet i can see the
trail behind them so and the same thing
will happen in the course of the
animation or you can look at the middle
east countries in North America or South
Asia so that's what highlighted does and
the other one that you have here is
manual that allows you to manually
select what countries you want to
explore and let's say the researchers
are interested.
Let's put this into trails and let's put
all and let's say the researchers are
interested in looking at comparing China
and India and North America so they can
right-click select them right click
click page history and click always show
and that's a manual selection for page
history and now when you play you will
see that only these three countries have
their trails being displayed. So you can
visually compare them how they were
progressing. So they as you can see they
all had different pathways to get where
they were going
so there we go, that's how all of them
work. Personally I think for this
visualization, the best approach is
marks all but only for the selected
country so that researchers can drill
into that country by itself and once
again as you can see these have been
left so I need to control a, select all
right click page history and just click
automatic and that way when I unselect
they're gone and only the countries that
I will select will have their history
displayed. So there you go, that's how you
create advanced animation in Tableau. In
the next tutorial, we will put all of
this into a beautiful dashboard to
present to our
audience. I look forward to your next time and
until then, happy analyzing.